---
title: Intermediate SQL (2)
author: <author_id>
date: 2023-06-24 00:19:00 +0900
categories: [ComputerScience, Database]
tags: [computer science, database]
toc: true
---

## Transaction
* A **transaction** consists of a sequence of query and/or update statements and is a **unit** of work.
* The SQL standard specifies that a transaction begins implicitly when an SQL statement is executed.  
* The transaction must end with one of the following statements:
    * **Commit work**: The updates performed by the transaction become permanent in the database. 
    * **Rollback work**: All the updates performed by the SQL statements in the transaction are undone.
* Atomic transaction
    * Either fully executed or rolled back as if it never occurred.
* Isolation from concurrent transactions

## Integrity Constraints
* Integrity constraints guard against accidental damage to the database, by ensuring that authorized changes to the database do not result in a loss of data consistency. 
    * A checking account must have a balance greater than $10,000.00.
    * A salary of a bank employee must be at least $4.00 an hour
    * A customer must have a (non-null) phone number

### Constraints on a Single Relation 
* **not null**
* **primary key**
* **unique**
* **check** (P), where P is a predicate

### Not Null Constraints
* The **not null** constraint prohibits the insertion of a null value for the attribute, and is an example of a domain constraint.

```sql
--Declare name and budget to be not null
name varchar(20) not null
budget numeric(12,2) not null;
```

### Unique Constraints
* The **unique** specification says that attributes form a superkey.
    * That is, no two tuples in the relation can be equal on all the listed attributes.
    * However, attributes declared as unique are permitted to be *null* unless they have explicitly been declared to be **not null**.
        * A null value does not equal any other value.

```sql
unique(A, B, C, ...)
```

### The Check Clause
* The **check** (P) clause specifies a predicate P that must be satisfied by every tuple in a relation.

```sql
--Ensure that semester is one of fall, winter, spring or summer  
create table section 
    (course_id varchar (8),
    sec_id varchar (8),
    semester varchar (6),
    year numeric (4,0),
    building varchar (15),
    room_number varchar (7),
    time slot id varchar (4), 
    primary key (course_id, sec_id, semester, year),
    check (semester in ('Fall', 'Winter', 'Spring', 'Summer')));
```

* The check clause permits attribute domains to be restricted in powerful ways that most programming language type systems do not permit.
* Null values present an interesting special case in the evaluation of a check clause.
    * A check clause is satisfied if it is not false, so clause that evaluate to unknown are not violations.
    * If null values are not desired, a seperate not null constraint must be specified.

### Referential Integrity
* Ensures that a value that appears in one relation for a given set of attributes also appears for a certain set of attributes in another relation.
    * Example: If “Biology” is a department name appearing in one of the tuples in the instructor relation, then there exists a tuple in the department relation for “Biology”.
* Let A be a set of attributes.  
* Let R and S be two relations that contain attributes A and where A is the primary key of S. 
    * A is said to be a foreign key of R if for any values of A appearing in R these values also appear in S.

* Foreign keys can be specified as part of the SQL create table statement.

```sql
create table instructor
    (ID varchar(5),
    name varchar(20) not null,
    dept_name varchar(20),
    salary numeric(8, 2) check (salary > 29000),
    primary key(ID),
    foreign key(dept_name) references department);
```

* By default, a foreign key references the primary-key attributes of the referenced table.
* SQL allows a list of attributes of the referenced relation to be specified explicitly.

```sql
foreign key (dept_name) references department (dept_name)

create table section
    (course_id varchar(8),
    sec_id varchar(8),
    semester varchar(6) check (semester in ('Fall', 'Winter', 'Spring', 'Summer')),
    year numeric(4, 0) check (year > 1759 and year < 2100),
    building varchar(15),
    room_number varchar(7),
    time_slot_id varchar(4),
    primary key (course_id, sec_id, semester, year),
    foreign key(course_id) references course,
    foreign keyI(building, room_number) references classroom);
```

* When a referential-integrity constraint is violated, the normal procedure is to reject the action that caused the violation.
* An alternative, in case of delete or update is to **cascade**.

```sql
create table course 
    (...
    dept_name varchar(20),
    foreign key (dept_name) references department
        on delete cascade
        on update cascade
    ...) 
```

* Instead of cascade we can use
    * set null
    * set default

### Integrity Constraint Violation During Transactions
* SQL standard allows a clause **initially deferred** to be added to a constraint specification.
    * The constraint would then be checked at the end of a transaction and not at intermediate steps.
* A constraint can alternatively be specified as **deferrable**, which means it is checked immediately by default but can be deferred when desired.
* For constraints declared as deferrable, executing a statement **set constraint** *constraint-list* **deferred** as part of a transaction causes the checking of the specified constraints to be deferred to the end of that transaction.

### Complex Check Conditions
* The predicate in the check clause can be an arbitrary predicate that can include a subquery.

```sql
check(time_slot_id in(select time_slot_id from time_slot))
```

* The check condition states that the time_slot_id in each tuple in the section relation is actually the identifier of a time slot in the time_slot relation.
    * The condition has to be checked not only when a tuple is inserted or modified in section, but also when the relation time_slot changes.

### Assertions
* An **assertion** is a predicate expressing a condition that we wish the database always to satisfy.
* The following constraints, can be expressed using assertions:
    * For each tuple in the student relation, the value of the attribute tot_cred must equal the sum of credits of courses that the student has completed successfully.
    * An instructor cannot teach in two different classrooms in a semester in the same time slot

```sql
create assertion credits_earned_constraint check
(not exists (select ID
            from student
            where tot_cred <> (select coalesce(sum(credits), 0)
                                from takes natural join course
                                where student.ID = takes.ID and grade is not null and grade <> 'F')));
```

## SQL Data Types and Schemas
### Built-in Data Types in SQL
* **date**: Dates, containing a (4 digit) year, month and date.
    * date '2005-7-27'
* **time**: Time of day, in hours, minutes and seconds.
    * time '09:00:30'         
    * time '09:00:30.75'
* **timestamp**: date plus time of day
    * timestamp '2005-7-27 09:00:30.75'
* **interval**: period of time
    * interval '1' day
    * Subtracting a date/time/timestamp value from another gives an interval value.
    * Interval values can be added to date/time/timestamp values.

### Default Values
* SQL allows a **default** value to be specified for an attribute as illustrated by the following create table statement.

```sql
create table student
    (ID varchar(5),
    name varchar not null,
    dept_name varchar(20),
    tot_cred numeric(3, 0) default 0,
    primary key (ID));
```

### Large-Object Types
* Large objects (photos, videos, CAD files, etc.) are stored as a large object
    * **blob**: binary large object
        * object is a large collection of uninterpreted binary data 
            * whose interpretation is left to an application outside of the database system.
    * **clob**: character large object
        * object is a large collection of character data.
* When a query returns a large object, a pointer is returned rather than the large object itself.

```sql
book_review clob(10KB)
image blob(10MB)
movie blob(2GB)
```

### User-Defined Types
* **create type** construct in SQL creates user-defined type.
 
```sql
create type Dollars as numeric (12,2) final;

create table department
    (dept_name varchar(20),
    building varchar (15),
    budget Dollars);
```

### Domains
* **create domain** construct in SQL-92 creates user-defined domain types.
* Types and domains are similar.
* Domains can have constraints, such as not null, specified on them.

```sql
create domain person_name char(20) not null;

create domain degree_level varchar(10)
    constraint degree_level_test
        check (value in ('Bachelors', 'Masters', 'Doctorate'));
```

## Index Definition in SQL
* Many queries reference only a small proportion of the records in a table. 
* It is inefficient for the system to read every record to find a record with particular value
* An **index** on an attribute of a relation is a data structure that allows the database system to find those tuples in the relation that have a specified value for that attribute efficiently, without scanning through all the tuples of the relation.
* We create an index with the create index command
    * create index <name> on <relation-name> (attribute);

```sql
create table student
    (ID varchar (5),
    name varchar (20) not null,
    dept_name varchar (20),
    tot_cred numeric (3,0) default 0,
    primary key (ID));

create index studentID_index on student(ID);
```

* The query can be executed by using the index to find the required record, without looking at all records of student.

```sql
select *
from  student
where  ID = '12345'
```

## Authorization
* We may assign a user several forms of authorizations on parts of the database.
    * **Read**: allows reading, but not modification of data.
    * **Insert**: allows insertion of new data, but not modification of existing data.
    * **Update**: allows modification, but not deletion of data.
    * **Delete**: allows deletion of data.
* Each of these types of authorizations is called a **privilege**. 
    * We may authorize the user all, none, or a combination of these types of privileges on specified parts of a database, such as a relation or a view.
* Forms of authorization to modify the database schema
    * **Index**: allows creation and deletion of indices.
    * **Resources**: allows creation of new relations.
    * **Alteration**: allows addition or deletion of attributes in a relation.
    * **Drop**: allows deletion of relations.

### Authorization Specification in SQL
* The **grant** statement is used to confer authorization.
	* grant <privilege list\> on <relation or view\> to <user list\>
* <user list\> is:
    * a user-id
    * **public**, which allows all valid users the privilege granted
    * A role

```sql
grant select on department to Amit, Satoshi;
```

* Granting a privilege on a view does not imply granting any privileges on the underlying relations.
* The grantor of the privilege must already hold the privilege on the specified item (or be the database administrator).

### Privileges in SQL
* **select**: allows read access to relation, or the ability to query using the view.
* **insert**: the ability to insert tuples.
* **update**: the ability  to update using the SQL update statement.
* **delete**: the ability to delete tuples.
* **all privileges**: used as a short form for all the allowable privileges.

### Revoking Authorization in SQL
* The **revoke** statement is used to revoke authorization.
    * revoke <privilege list\> on <relation or view\> from <user list\>
* <privilege-list\> may be **all** to revoke all privileges the revokee may hold.
* If <revokee-list\> includes **public**, all users lose the privilege except those granted it explicitly.
* If the same privilege was granted twice to the same user by different grantees, the user may retain the privilege after the revocation.
* All privileges that depend on the privilege being revoked are also revoked.

### Roles
* A **role** is a way to distinguish among various users as far as what these users can access/update in the database.
* To create a role we use: create a role <name\>
* Once a role is created we can assign “users” to the role using: grant <role\> to <users\>

```sql
create role instructor;

grant instructor to Amit;

--Privileges can be granted to roles
grant select on takes to instructor;

--Roles can be granted to users, as well as to other roles
--Instructor inherits all privileges of teaching_assistant
create role teaching_assistant
grant teaching_assistant to instructor;

--Chain of roles
create role dean;
grant instructor to dean;
grant dean to Satoshi;
```

### Authorization on Views
```sql
create view  geo_instructor as
(select *
from instructor
where dept_name = 'Geology');

grant select on geo_instructor to geo_staff;
```

* Suppose that a geo_staff member issues
```sql
select *
from geo_instructor;
```

* The staff member is authorized to see the result of this query.
* However, when the query processor translates it into a query on the actual relations in the database, it replaces uses of a view by the definition of the view, producing a query on instructor.
* Thus, the system must check authorization on the clerk's query before it replaces views by their definitions.

### Other Authorization Features
* references privilege to create foreign key
    * SQL references privilege is granted on specific attributes in a manner like that for the update privilege.

```sql
grant reference (dept_name) on department to Mariano;
```

* transfer of privileges
    * The passing of a specific authorization from one user to another can be represented by an **authorization graph**.
    * The user has an authorization *if and only if* there is a path from the root of the authorization graph (the node representing the database administrator) down to the node representing the user.

```sql
grant select on department to Amit with grant option;
revoke select on department from Amit, Satoshi cascade;
revoke select on department from Amit, Satoshi restrict;
```